And this is, I guess, my general point is,
I think we need to know more about what's going on.
Because the more knowledge that we have, the more likely it is that people like me who feel that things went seriously awry, that there was lots and lots of money that was spent on things like diethyl zinc.
The quote right here, that librarians were behaving like weapons procurers at the Department of Defense.
Well, that sounds like I'm some kind of nut saying that.
This program of using a gas that explodes on contact with water and bursts into flame on contact with air over three decades at the Library of Congress when its military uses were never revealed and which cost millions and millions of dollars, might not have happened if we had known that there was this kind of secrecy and that if we could have used that money, and it's always about money in some ways,
to store the stuff that was at the same time being guillotined and thrown away, people like me wouldn't be making a fuss.
Yes, Michael, a question for Richard.
In my own experience as an archer of 30 years in the National Armed Forces, I've found many instances where
either congressional oversight people or, as the Archives was part of GSA, were urging microtoning and destruction.
And I guess from that experience, I find this book very refreshing.
And it does seem to me that this is a concern that archivists and librarians should be concerned with, because often the budget numbers are what dictate professional positions.
I'm not sure what the question is then.
What's the issue?
Microfilm is being questioned on you as... No, I guess you seem to dismiss the book, which I find very compelling.
And I think as archivists and librarians, we should be very concerned that these are our legitimate issues and that we should welcome the book.
Okay, well...
Well, first of all, I mean, I'm not saying it's just a book, and I'm not saying it's not.
I don't believe in a version of it.
Every time we pick up a newspaper or read one of our list search, we find it in other review, or we find it being interviewed by Reddy Lane and Unbound, where you're trying to backtrack the conspiracy notions of interview and some other things.
I mean, yes, it is a compelling book.
It is something we need to take seriously.
I don't think it should be dismissed.
However, I also don't think we should welcome it with Wilming Arts.
I think we need to basically look at what are the elements in there that are critically
necessary for us to deal with, and what are those that are wrong?
And there are a lot that are wrong.
One of the assumptions is that a lot of what we do is about warehouses.
There is the quote in the Atlantic Unbound thing about, you know, you go out on I-95 and you see warehouse after warehouse after warehouse.
America's ingenuity is building warehouses.
They're not warehouses.
that we need.
They are not the warehouses that we need.
For God's sake, we can't even get the people who are supposed to know how to build libraries and archives buildings to put in the right kinds of environmental conditions.
They continually prepare structures that are inadequate for our purposes.
And if you put those newspapers in those warehouses, the paper will deteriorate even more quickly because of the environmental conditions.
It is a compelling book.
We need to take it seriously.
I agree 100%.
But it is not all true.
There are simplistic notions in there, and there are things that we need to deal with.
Now, I've been writing for 20 years about the issue of selection, appraisal, being the critical issue, okay, for librarians and archivists.
And one thing I will agree with some of the things in the book is the indiscriminate nature of some of the ways that the digitalization, even, or the microfilming and the virtual books projects have been taken aback.
First article I ever wrote about
from an archival viewpoint, critiquing preservation selection was 1986.
So I'm very much invested in this and think that the preservation community has been very poor in elaborating its selection criteria as well.
I think the line crew community as well.
So yes, we need to be better.
And we do need to explain ourselves.
What I regret is that now we are under defensive, not having necessarily just to explain ourselves,
but also having to defend ourselves in a time of precarious funding, I mean, with a new administration that perhaps is going to gut funding from existing programs.
We've already seen the National Historical Publications and Records Commission budget, which is virtually nonexistent to begin with.
I remember 20 years ago, sitting in a living room, a friend of mine, who was a Civil Marine commander,
who told me that, he told me one time, going out and exercising, losing the stuff, losing, they lost the torpedo.
Okay, I won't mention the name or the ship that the boat that this occurred on, but they went out and lost the torpedo.
So I said, we were having a debate about the federal support of Parks versus the military.
I said, what did that torpedo cost?
He said $2 million, this was 20 years ago.
I said, at that point, that's the whole budget
for NHPRC, Support for Restorable Records.
So one of the problems we have in the context of this book is the fact that there's part of an unreal world here that exists, as if it's our choice, necessarily always, to go out and just make these decisions, as if we have unlimited resources and unlimited support.
We don't.
And the preservation program fought for a very long time.
And because of those successes, that book is printed on acid-free paper
and has a better chance of surviving.
the cost of those successes was some of the same crazy people.
And look, I know some of those people in that book, and they are odd.
But it doesn't necessarily mean that they were wrong in some of the things that they were doing, or that because they worked for this agency or did that,
that there's something that's wrong.
So yes, I mean, if we're being pushed to do things, we need to do a better job explaining one of these that we do.
Question for Mr. Baker with a follow-up, I hope.
How many people have used your newspaper collection for research purposes in the past year?
The sorting.
These students from the University of New Hampshire
as part of the history class, came to both sort of papers, and then they were given the assignment of picking an individual year.
So they worked with a given volume of the Chicago Tribune and the New York Herald Tribune, and that will continue next year.
Another kind of use is McGraw-Hill is publishing a textbook of one of its big textbooks, and now a website goes along with it.
Sultans hired by Nebraska Hill to produce this website were having trouble with the microfilms of Chicago Tribune because it just doesn't look good on the web or in person.
And so they came to me wanting to look at the Chicago Tribune volumes.
And then I showed them some stuff from the New York world and they found all these incredible political cartoons.
So now as part of this website, Phil will be
this thematic study of the meat-packing legislation Upton Sinclair in 1906, with all the political cartoons related to that.
And that's exactly the kind of thing that I would hope would happen.
It's not that this place is going to be overrun with people who use this when they could be using microphones, because the paper is delicate, and it's one of the important things to keep it safe.
but it just seems to me that there are kinds of uses and kinds of questions that only the originals can answer, and that's why you would want a low-use newspaper collection like this, and I hope that will continue.
Not hearing a number, but how would you respond to a librarian who would choose to decide to take, I think the figure was $26,000 a year for warehouse space,
and rather than use that $26,000 for the purpose you just described, use it to run children's story hour programs or adult literacy programs or other types of programs.
My point being that it might not be about shelf space, but about the best possible use of a resource to benefit the most number of people.
Well, really my book is about major research libraries, and I do apologize if that in some way, I thought that my
by discussion of the actions of places like the Library of Congress has seemed to apply to small suburban public libraries, which have a very different function.
And of course, one book coming into one of those places dislodges another book.
But at places like the Library of Congress, there really was a huge amount of money spent on things, like diabolsing deacidification, and like microfilming, and like optical disk pilot projects, none of which worked.
There was money
that just went out the door.
And I think it was because the library's senior management was just wandering.
And they were excited by things that were divergent from what I think is the goal of a place like the Library of Connage, which is not, in that case, children's story hours and things, but the holding on to the accumulated intelligence of the center.
Can I just say one thing about that?
I mean, about the big research libraries versus the small libraries.
I mean, I try to make that quite new because you make it well enough.
The fact of it is is that many research collections are also held by small repositories.
Newspaper, many newspaper collections are also held by small repositories.
The U.S.
Newspaper Project, when it goes out there, finds thousands of newspapers, in some cases unknown,
Okay, in those kinds of small repositories.
I think that whether intended or not, that book is being read read as a indictment, criticism, however you want to characterize it, of all libraries and all archives.
Okay, that's what it's, that's based, and in fact, I think it's, you know, these in smaller institutions
do have a law deployed in this stuff.
It's not just about the Library of Congress.
I mean, except at the Library of Congress.
I talked to somebody at the Library of Congress.
They said if you preserve the original newspapers every year, we would have to have 50,000-pound volumes of newspapers every single year.
I don't know who this person is.
I haven't checked up on this, but some of you saw the letter to the
New York Times.
Library of Congress started replacing newspaper Fikerville in 1961.
Storing all those newspapers for 40 years, much less than a century, would cost $100 million.
Last year, the library spent $1.1 million in Fikerville, 3.7 million in newspaper pages, so bankruptcy dropped by nearly $100 million.
Again, I don't know who this person is.
I mean, to be honest, we need to sit down and look at those pictures and figure it out, but it's not as
I think there is a huge cost and a huge set of problems that need to be scaled up that are not reflected in the story.
Can I just say one thing about the repeated thought that I say that librarians are evil and librarians are villains, and the only hero of this book is Thomas Tansel.
Well, I actually use the word heroic librarians about
like Charles Longley at the Boston Public Library, Lucy Caswell at the Ohio State Cartoon Research Library, Peter Waters who spent his career at the Library of Congress, he's one of the great book conservators of all time, Randy Silverman at the University of Utah, who's the preservation administrator there, Paul Conway at Yale.
These are all people who talked to me and told me that things had gone wrong that really troubled them and that it was important to get some of these things out.
And when I said that something was called slash and burn preservation, the reason why I said it, it was an invocation mark because it's from a paper by Paul Conway.
He said that it's very difficult to evaluate the quality of the copy of the originals of the microfilm versus the copy when the originals are in a landfill.
That is the thing that he wrote.
So if something bad happened there,
that we have to look at, I think, and we have to learn from.
And we really, it's right now, we're right on the cusp of something where it's very profitable to learn from those mistakes because there's so much money and so much excitement about digital scanning.
And we can really, we could do it right this time.
Instead of using JSTOR to replace every single journal run in one's own institution, one could say, well, these journal runs are
Of course it's useful to have JSTOR and be able to search through things, but these things are part of what we have, part of the history of our own institution, and we should value them as well.
So I think it's worth it.
Okay.
I think what I'd like to say is maybe more of a comment than a question, but it is all about money.
I agree.
And there is never enough of it, but it seems to me unfortunate that we're using this as such an adversarial type of
commentary this book has really brought to the forefront the fact that there isn't enough money librarians have made choices maybe choices that we wish we hadn't made in hindsight certainly i found the color slides very compelling and
I'm wondering if there is in some way we could use this as a springboard toward common ground, which is to say that if we had more public funding, we could save more of the treasures that in the past have been thrown away and would have been thrown away if some of these volumes hadn't been saved.
So I'd like to see a more cooperative kind of spirit to bring these issues to the forefront.
One comment on that, I mean, every single review that I've read isn't talking about the kinds of issues that you just read.
The point of it is that the reception of this book, again, regardless of what the author intended, the reception of this book by the professional book reviewers
who were mostly, at this point, writing the reviews.
This will change, I think, just like, as I pointed out to some people, like what happened 30 years ago with the book Time on the Cross.
The first six months or so, all the reviews were positive, and then the real reviews came out.
And I think things got balanced.
But the issue here is that all the reviews are not talking about the kinds of issues you're talking about.
They are talking about the evil librarians.
That's what the reviews are saying.
And some of that language is lifted out of whether quoted from other people or not.
I know Paul Conway.
You know, I've worked on many projects together.
Yes, I identify some of those words, okay, using those things, because Paul, like some of the other people mentioned, are critics within their own field of trying to make the improvements and the adjustments, okay?
But I think that that's very different.
the language the way is employed in in the book and what the reviewers are picking up i think the public reception is negative towards libraries and archives at the moment because of the book now can we turn it around i don't think so i hope i've heard rumors that the library of congress uh is planning to hold a conference in july i don't know yeah well whoops
I think there's going to be, I mean, I wrote a letter to a foundation and asked for funding and said, you know, would you fund a conference if we brought 10 or 12 people together to address different aspects of this book and also invited Nicholson Baker, would you do this?
Okay, you know, see if we could find, you know, money to do, I don't know how long he wants to put up with this, but if he, you know,
On the other hand, you sort of caused it, so I think you better be prepared.
But I think that the dialogue, to get where you're talking about, has yet to happen.
And I hope that it doesn't.
Noticing a lot of the conversation, very little is said about the possibility of the people who produce the books to contribute to the conservation and preservation.
They just dump it out.
and they walk away as left to libraries and archives who turn to the public money to do this.
Shouldn't the publishers, the original producers, be responsible for producing major funding for these efforts?
I'd like to have comments from either one of you on that.
One thing I can say about the New York Times and the New York Forward and a number of other newspapers published a rag paper edition.
that was sold to libraries and bought widely.
And the Library of Congress and the New York Public Library had these grand paper editions.
When they say why they got rid of them, they say it's because of the inherent vice of the paper.
It's because paper crumbles and we had to get rid of them.
But they're talking here about editions that were made on paper that is stronger than all books
currently published, certainly stronger than any of these books that are extremely strong.
So there's already been an attempt to make something that would reside permanently in libraries in paper form.
And that attempt has been subverted by this kind of indiscriminate approach that newspapers are beyond the pale.
They're simply not something that we can have in a library in any form other than microfilm.
that will change i hope and i mean i i certainly win sometimes when i read the headlines of the uh the book reviews because i don't think because i don't i didn't mean it quite that way um i do think it's heartening that that um richard if i may use his first name that i have this important thing in common which is he says sort of towards the end that this
Maybe we should have a moratorium on major reformating projects until we talk about this.
That, I think, is a very important statement, because if we could really talk about what the intentions of reformating projects are, are they, as people like Michael Lesk think, really to change the way libraries do business, have one single copy in Washington, and have network facsimiles floating all around, or are they to say things that are
terribly impaired and at the point of crumblings.
And if we can talk about it and make decisions after that, then we should resume funding big microfilming projects.
And also, if we can all say to the NEH, fine, you wanted to give us a lot of money for microfilming for a long time, now we would like some money for storage.
We would just help us out with this task.
Because what you did was you distorted all of our decision making.
by channeling it all in this one direction of microfilm.
So I'm actually heartened by that and also suggesting that we would make some analytical studies of the actual nature of paper's deterioration, because all these studies that are invoked by the Library of Congress are based on the accelerated aging test where you take paper and you put it in ovens for three days, and three days in an accelerated aging oven supposedly equals 25 years of real life, and none of those tests have turned out to be
and they really need to find out what paper, how paper behaves.
I happen to know, because I have a lot of hundred-year-old newsprint that was never stored in any kind of air conditioning.
It was always in ambient British temperatures in the humanities.
It was in beautiful shape that newsprint, the cheapest and most impermanent, supposedly of all papers, is in astonishingly long-lived mediums.
Just let me comment on this thing about the
the responsibility of the creators.
I think this is a really important problem.
I mean, one of the things, one of the sections I just read in this paper, I talked a little bit more about this in light of the newspapers, for example.
In order to understand newspapers, which are, and I'd like to add, I mean, one of the other problems with the discussion in the newspapers is that newspapers are portrayed as sort of a fundamental historical record of American society.
It is, okay, it is a part of
It is not the most fundamental.
It is a highly flawed, problematic document.
And it has lots of biases and lots of issues.
And one of the things, in order to understand this paper, we also have to preserve things like the records of the publishers.
And how many records of publishers have we managed to salvage?
I mean, we've lost a lot of that as well because these institutions, these businesses, don't take responsibility for those institutional archives.
That is a problem.
There's comparable articles out there about newspaper awards and about newspaper photographic collections, some of which have been salvaged at the expense of individual archives and other efforts of archivists.
These companies did not take responsibility, and it is, I think, a critical issue, as it has been, I think, with the publishing industry as well.
And I think that these are the kinds of issues that we talk more about.
We just can't shift the burdens
it's not just about shifting the word from the federal government that's for sure um and yes there are prior problems with priorities as they set them all at a time but they often set them in response to other issues that is what they hear from the field but also from what they can give from congress okay and that's a whole political flag fire that
It's also part of the real world.
It's very difficult.
It's not what I mean at all.
People are the Fremont writer, the lot of the show, not just, you know, are sort of figures that these people are, you know, the kind of people that make good decisions.
We have time for just one more relatively brief question.
I can't promise to be brief, but I am from the Library of Congress.
I want to think it's basically a waste of time for us to try and refute some of this
laws-generating type rhetoric that's mainly focused on the past.
I think what we have to do, and I'm speaking now as the National Library, is really focused on what we have to do for the future.
And so I would really like to share with some of my professional colleagues and my fellow alumni from Simmons some of the things that your National Library is doing, and is doing long before this book was ever published, help resolve some of the issues that are going to discuss today.
I really might be able to sit quietly, but this is something I really can't do.
I want to mention five different aspects of this.
One is that we will finally be opening later this summer, in early September, the first of the remote storage modules on Route 95 that the Library of Congress has been trying to get Congressional funding for for over six years.
I mention this mainly to show that it isn't lack of effort, nor is it easy to get money to do things which we know are essential.
What is required really are two things, I think, primarily.
One is perseverance, and the second is the ability to try to make the best business case.
And I'm here talking not about financial ones, because I have to say that the argument is not one that can ever be carried based on cost effectiveness.
I don't believe that it costs $3 a book to be stored at Duke.
I don't believe that they believe that either if you're talking about the cost over an extended period of time, which is what funders are asking you to show.
Our argument was based simply upon the fact that we need to be able to maintain these materials in the original form.
And secondly, to be able to do it in the kind of conditions that would ensure their longevity.
This meant being certain that the proper environmental conditions were built into this facility.
This took longer, it took money, it took explaining.
But I absolutely believe that had we not done that, we would simply have been putting material into a place that would have accelerated its deterioration.
And you can believe this or not, it's something that we believe, and I'm quite happy that we're able to prevail on this.
And now that we have the modules designed, we can build probably an infinite number of them because of the large amount of space that was given to us there.
The second is how proud I am of the work that Congress has done and the work that Congress has done in the area of Mastia certification.
While it is perhaps enjoyable for you to talk about DEZ as a military conspiracy type thing, I don't understand quite what your argument was about explosions in military and so on.
Again, the important point is that when one method to resolve this actual problem of deteriorating paper proved not to be effective, the Library of Congress was strong congressional support persevered and now has a process that is being used not only by the Library of Congress, but by many other research libraries here.
I find it really quite ironic in all of the things that are in your argumentation, this animus against Masseismic simplification, referring to items being put into gas chambers, as being one of the most peculiar, because we really believe, and I think there's strong evidence, that this is probably the single most important method available to us today to actually accomplish the result that we have thought that you would be most interested in, which is preserving the artifact.
Of course, this is true, hopefully, if one believes,
that there really is a problem of the civic papers.
I think it's mysterious, really, to me, and something I would be happy to hear your comment on later.
The third is the library has been asking for the last several years and has been able to receive from Congress in each of these years a substantial new infusion of money to do item-level conservation.
But to get to the point that I was going to, that really got me onto this, that I have called for a meeting at the Library of Congress sometime this summer.
We're co-sponsored by the American Council of the Learned Society, as we know we have to have the user community heavily involved in this, as well as the Council of Library Information Resources and the Association of Research Libraries.
This conference is being keyed to the publication of the report of the Council of Library Information Resources artifact in the library collections, which I know many people are aware of, and if not, you should see on the website.
Among the many topics that we will be discussing there,
is the recommendation which came from the Library of Congress to that task force that there be strong consideration of a creation in the United States of a national repository where the Library of Congress would use its authority under legal deposit to take one copy of every book that is registered for copyright and put it into storage to be kept as a last resort copy, never to be used except as a last resort.
And this is something that I have been thinking about for over four years
looking very closely at some of the models that seem to be working in the Scandinavian countries.
But in order to do this, this is not a self-evidently desirable thing for the congressional staff to be funding.
And so I think it's really critical that we get a large body of archivists who steal the utility of this, help us get dollars put to it, and help us make the argumentation.
Otherwise, the buildings will not happen.
Thank you.
Our thanks to both of our speakers today.
We can perhaps continue the discussion among ourselves and with them.
As I mentioned, there's a company that are ready to have breakfast this morning for lunch.